3CCFG TODO
==========

- Reevaluate CONFIGURE /SYNCREADY:
	- Version 3.2 lists it in CLI help but does not branch into implementation.
	- Version 3.0 has the same behavior.
	- Version 2.1 has no /SYNCREADY parser entry or handler.
	- Version 1.2 contains no SYNCREADY text, help entry, parser branch, or
		identifiable EEPROM handler. Its Sourcer output lacks the configuration
		data tables needed to confirm or rule out the suspected EEPROM bit.
	- Consult the 3Com technical reference for any "Synchronous Ready" EEPROM
		bit (pages 7-20 and 7-26) and determine whether it was an intended
		persistent configuration setting.
	- Reassess whether it belongs in scoped CLI parity after its hardware
		mapping and persistence semantics are confirmed.

  Also, the 3Com Technical Reference clearly says, it's an EEPROM bit:

  Resource Configuration Register (3C509, 3C579, 3C509B, 3C589,3C589B) (Read/Write - Offset 8)

  ISA (3C509B)
  Bit 6 Synchronous Ready. Normal I/O cycles if clear. If set, the adapter will assert
  I/OCHRDY on every I/O access. This may allow the board to work in a
  noncompliant bus that would otherwise not be supported (for example, an
  ISA bus running faster than spec). This bit defaults to 0 on power-up, but is
  overwritten from the EEPROM


- Hardware Compliance Tests  

  Sketch: have 3ccfgcli extended to dump EEPROM values to a batch file using
  a new /SAVECONFIG verb.

  Then go into new TESTHWC.MK, reconfigure the actual NIC using the original 3c5x9cfg.exe binary,
  and cross-check with 3ccfgcli if we can read back correctly.

  We're bootstrapping ourselves here, but this way we can fully very EEPROM reads in the
  first place, which tells us, that also the EEPROM writes should technically be correct,
  because the registers are the same for either operation.

  This is actually implemented already since 0.6.5, but I saw another issue here:

  The original implementation, which largely was pushed forward from the mock interface
  shows some limitations.
  I thought I could get away with a simple map of the EEPROM and register values,
  but found that I need to really mimic the exact EEPROM and registers, like the real thing.

  Hence I'll refactor that first, bevore continuing with the HWC part.

  t1505 duplicate active IOBASE conflict:

  The hardware-faithful mock currently rejects a targeted IOBASE migration
  when two active adapters decode the same IOBASE. The physical port response
  is ambiguous, so selecting and safely reconfiguring adapter 2 is not
  supported by the model.

  Retest this with real EtherLink III cards intentionally configured to the
  same IOBASE and the original 3C5X9CFG utility. Determine whether the
  original utility handles this conflict gracefully or simply fails. Until
  confirmed, retain the conservative failure expectation in t1505.



- Bugs:
  ----
  Boot ROM Activation:

  Boot ROM (/BADDRESS & /BSIZE) seem to probe if a ROM is actually socketed.
  The original utility prevents configuration if it doesn't find a Boot ROM installed.

  Need to figure out, how this works exactly.

  SAVECONFIG verb

  While the implementation for SAVECONFIG is semantically correct and prints the intended
  command line for either `3C5X9CFG` or `3CCFGCLI`to the given "restore" batch file,
  it will result in a DOS runtime error.

  Reason is that the command line exceeds the maximum length command buffer of 256 bytes,
  because all the cumulated argument names are simply longer than the command buffer.

  The main problem is this: Especially when invoking the original 3C5X9CFG binary, the command line
  arguments must use the exact same verbs as the original implementation. No shortcuts,
  no shorthand aliases.
  This means, the existing function must be adapted to split the command line into two
  chunks of not more than 256 bytes (actually, preferrably around 128 byes +/- 20 bytes).




STAGE 1 LOW-LEVEL HARDWARE MODEL: STATUS AND REMAINING GAP

The mock backend's low-level protocol model (Window 3 Internal Configuration,
ID-port FFh activation, ID-port Global Reset broadcast scope, a central
Command Register decoder with Command-In-Progress polling, byte-wide I/O,
and Command Register byte-pair completion) is now implemented in
3CMOCKIF.ASM, alongside a minimal Window 2 station-address register and a
documented per-adapter/shared-bus/host-scratch classification of the
existing ID-port scratch variables.

None of the following are presently reachable from any 3CCFGCLI code path,
by design of this pass (see AGENTS-provided scope: finish the low-level
model first, do not redesign configuration verbs in this pass):

  - Window 2 / Window 3 register access
  - ID-port FFh (Activate at preconfigured base)
  - the Command Register opcodes Global Reset and Start Coaxial
    Transceiver
  - Nic_IO_Read_Byte / Nic_IO_Write_Byte
  - Command Register bytewise low/high completion

Because TEST.MK can only drive the mock through 3CCFGCLI.EXE/3CHWMOCK.EXE
(3CSEED.EXE writes the .MCK file directly and does not link 3CMOCKIF.ASM,
so it cannot exercise register-level I/O either), these code paths cannot
yet be covered by black-box CLI tests without adding new CLI-reachable
surface, which this pass intentionally avoids.  The ID-port Global Reset
scope fix IS reachable today (via CONFIGURE's existing deactivate/
reconfigure flows) and is covered by the existing regression suite, which
was re-verified to pass with no changes in observable behavior.

When a future pass wires a CONFIGURE verb (or other 3CCFGCLI path) to one
of the still-unreachable items above -- most likely Window 3's ISA
ACTIVATION SELECT field for CONFIGURE /PNP, per the SPEC ALIGNMENT
FOLLOW-UP section below -- add the corresponding TEST.MK negative tests at
that time, alongside the CLI change that makes them reachable.



SPEC ALIGNMENT FOLLOW-UP

The current implementation still contains several configuration semantics inherited from reverse engineering of the original 3Com utility that do not match the documented 3C509B hardware layout in the 3Com Technical Reference.

These issues are intentionally deferred until after the current hardware-faithful mock refactor is complete.

Required follow-up:

* Rework EEPROM Software Information word 0Dh according to the documented 3C509B layout.

  * Bit 15 is documented as zero and must not be treated as FULLDUPLEX.
  * Bit 14 is Link Beat Disable.
  * Bits 13:8 are Maximum Interrupt Disable Time.
  * Bits 7:6 are zero/reserved.
  * Bits 5:4 are Software Optimization.
  * Bits 3:0 are Select Boot Protocol.

* Revisit CONFIGURE /FULLDUPLEX.

  The current implementation treats EEPROM word 0Dh bit 15 as a Full Duplex flag, but this is not supported by the 3C509B Technical Reference.

  Determine whether FULLDUPLEX belongs to another documented register/EEPROM field, is utility-specific behaviour requiring another authoritative source, or should be removed from the 3C509B configuration model.

  Also note:
    FULLDUPLEX can't be enabled if Transceiver (TR) is AUTO|COAX|AUI

    the function must have a gate.

* Rework CONFIGURE /MODEM.

  The documented modem-related hardware field is only EEPROM word 0Dh bits 13:8, Maximum Interrupt Disable Time.

  The current implementation now preserves the independent fields in word 0Dh;
  retain this item only for any further compatibility investigation.

* Rework Plug and Play capability detection.

  ISA Plug and Play capability is documented in EEPROM word 10h bit 0.

  EEPROM word 14h bits 3:0 identify the adapter revision class, with value 1 identifying 3C509B-class hardware, and must not be used as a substitute PnP capability bit.

* Revisit transceiver capability handling.

  The documented connector availability should ultimately come from the live Window 0 Configuration Control register capability bits rather than only from a hard-coded Product ID matrix.

  Documented 3C509B connector variants include:

  ```
  TPO     10BASE-T
  TP      10BASE-T + AUI
  Coax    AUI + BNC
  COMBO   10BASE-T + AUI + BNC
  ```

  AUTO SELECT should operate from the hardware-reported connector capabilities.

  Also note:
    FULLDUPLEX can't be enabled if Transceiver (TR) is AUTO|COAX|AUI

    the function must have a gate.


* Revisit Product ID 9850h.

  The currently used 9850h value is not identified as a 3C509B Product ID in the Technical Reference used for the hardware model.

  Keep it only if another authoritative source confirms its meaning.

* Correct documentation and constants after the behavioural changes are implemented.

Do not add new mock behaviour or regression tests that further depend on the current FULLDUPLEX, MODEM, OPTIMIZE, PNP-capability, or transceiver-capability interpretations unless specifically required for preserving existing behaviour during the refactor.

The current mock refactor may continue independently, because these issues concern configuration-field interpretation rather than the low-level register, EEPROM-controller, ID-port, activation, and I/O-dispatch architecture.
